---
layout: post
title: "Intuition - Factoring Part 1"
date: "2024-01-28"
hide: false
author: "Jayden Gong"
excerpt_seperator: <!--excerpt-->
---

{% include latex.html %}

In this class, they
(not including me, I wasn't there)
learned about factoring.
This most likely isn't the factoring
you're thinking about.

We learned three things:
factoring a GCF out of a list of terms,
factoring a GCF out of polynomials, and
factoring 4-termed polynomials.

<!--excerpt-->

### Factoring a GCF (greatest common factor) Out of a List of Terms

Just in case somebody doesn't know,
a list of terms looks like this:

$$2xy^5, 12x^2y, 500xyz^3, 20xyz$$

Hopefully, you know
how to find a GCF already.

If you don't, here's a quick explanation:

#### Step 1:
Prime factorize all of the numbers.
#### Step 2:
List out all of the different primes
from all of the numbers.
#### Step 3:
Find the highest exponent attached
to each of the primes.
Then, attach that exponent
to it's corresponding prime.
#### Step 4:
Multiply everything together,
and you have the GCF.

Generally, if you find yourself
with a whole lot of variables or irreducible constants,
pretend those are regular numbers
and just do the same steps.

This works here too.
When you prime factorize all of the terms,
treat the variables
(and if you see them, irreducible constants)
as regular primes.

### Factoring a GCF Out of a Polynomial

You can probably figure this one out :)

<details>
<summary style="font-size:15pt; background-color:yellow;">Solution </summary>
Treat the polynomial as a list.
Then, do the GCF thing with the list,
and then, combine the list
back together into a polynomial.
</details>

### Factoring a Cubic Quadrinomial

This method only works sometimes.

Basically, you treat the $$x^3$$ and $$x^2$$
terms as one polynomial,
and the $$x$$ and constant terms as another.
Then, you can use the GCF thing
on both polynomials.

If you do this, you are guaranteed
to have $$ax^2(bx + c) + d(ex + f)$$.

<b>IF</b> $$b=e$$ and $$c=f$$,
you can combine those again
by factoring out $$(bx + c)$$
from both of them.

This doesn't only work if you group it this way.

#### Generalization

Generally, you can split things up
in any way and then factor them
as long as the number of groups
multiplies together to the number of terms
and the terms mesh together perfectly.

For example, say we have a six-termed polynomial:

$$ax^5 + bx^4 + cx^3 + dx^2 + ex + f$$

The number of terms is $$6$$,
so we can split it up into $$2$$ and $$3$$,
because $$2 \cdot 3 = 6$$.

Then, it would look something like this:

$$x^4(ax + b) + x^2(cx + d) + x^3(ex + f)$$

and then, if the terms mesh together,

$$(gx^4 + hx^2 + jx^3)(kx + l)$$

(if you noticed I didn't use $$i$$
as a coefficient, good job.
$$i$$ is actually $$\sqrt{-1}$$,
so I couldn't use it as a variable.)

We could also factor it into
more layers than just 2.

If we used a eight-termed polynomial instead,
we could have three layers.
First, we would seperate
the polynomial into 4 binomials.
Then, we could combine
those binomials into 2 groups of 4,
where each group of 4 has 2 layers.
Finally, we could combine
those last 2 factored polynomials
into something with 3 layers.

This doesn't stop here:
you can make the number
as big as as you want,
and factor it into
as many layers as you want.

<br>

As the title suggests,
this isn't all of factoring.
There is still a lot to do,
like factoring quadratics
(in different ways than mentioned here)
and probably completing the square
and the quadratic formula.