---
layout: post
title: "Intuition: Factoring Part 2"
date: "2024-01-31"
hide: false
author: "Jayden Gong"
excerpt_seperator: <!--excerpt-->
---

{%include latex.html%}

Today we learned about factoring quadratic trinomials
and factoring difference of squares.

<!--excerpt-->

### Factoring Difference of Squares

Say we have $$ax^2 - b$$.

Factoring is the opposite of distributing,
so we just need to find something
that distributes to $$ax^2 - b$$.

Usually, you want to factor
out a GCF before you do anything else.
Once you do that,
we get something like: $$c(\frac{a}{c}x^2 - \frac{b}{c})$$.

Then, you know that the two coefficients
are squares of some other numbers,
so you just factor it as:
$$c(\sqrt{\frac{a}{c}} + \sqrt{\frac{b}{c}})(\sqrt{\frac{a}{c}} - \sqrt{\frac{b}{c}})$$
(here, you could technically take the $$\sqrt{\frac{1}{c}}$$
out and cancel it with the c in front,
but that's not fully simplified.)

This process goes basically like this:
I want to factor a difference of squares.
When you distribute a  difference of squares,
it squares the coefficients,
so if I want to factor it,
or go backward,
I need to square root the coefficients.

### Factoring a quadratic trinomial

Say your quadratic trinomial looks like this:
$$ax^2 + bx + c$$.

You want to factor it.
First, let's look at the case where $$a = 1$$,
because it's simpler
and probably a better place to start.

#### Factoring when $$a = 1$$

Factoring is the opposite of distributing,
so let's look at what happens when we distribute.

When we distribute $$(x + r)(x + s)$$,
we get $$x^2 + x(r + s) + rs$$.
We notice that $$b = r + s$$
and $$c = rs$$.
Therefore, we should find
two numbers, r and s,
such that $$r + s = b$$ and $$rs = c$$.

There's a few tricks that can help here:

First, look at whether b or c is positive or negative.
If c is negative,
one of $$r$$ or $$s$$ will be negative.
That means that $$b$$ will be the difference
of two positive numbers.
If c is positive,
$$r$$ and $$s$$ will both be
either positive or negative.
The way to tell if they're
both positive or negative
is to look at $$b$$.

After that, look at $$c$$.
If $$c$$ has a lot of divisors,
then your best bet is to look at $$b$$.
If $$b$$ is a weirder number to get,
you can try looking for numbers
that add up to $$b$$.
If $$c$$ is more on the prime side
(or better yet, prime),
you can just test out
all of the divisors of $$c$$.

Basically, look for the things
that are unique,
and then use that uniqueness
to find the right numbers.

#### Factoring When $$a \neq 1$$

We only learned how to do it
if you could do the first option below
and have all integers
(basically same thing
as factoring out a GCF).

More generally, you have 2 options:

First, you can factor
an $$a$$ out of the whole thing
and risk having fractions.

Second, you can factor it
while taking into account
that $$a$$ isn't $$1$$.
Basically, you will factor it into
$$(dx + e)(fx + g)$$ instead.

Then, $$df = a$$ and still,
$$c = eg$$,
but $$b$$ has changed.
$$b$$ is now $$dg + ef$$.

When I solve this type of quadratic,
I usually vary $$d$$ and $$e$$
(dependent on $$a$$)
and try out a lot of combinations
for $$f$$ and $$g$$.
If it makes more sense
to vary $$f$$ and $$g$$ instead,
it's possible to do that too.

Basically every trick mentioned
in the above section still works.
Just watch out for the weird $$b$$
and you'll be fine.

### Conclusion

This is probably the last
factoring thing we're going to do.
We might do some stuff
about solving quadratics,
but I can't gaurantee
that this will be in the same unit.